I thought of sustenance for the first time. I had not had a drop to drink or a bite to eat or a minute of sleep in
three days. Finding this obvious explanation for my weakness brought me a little strength.
Richard Parker was still on board. In fact, he was directly beneath me. Incredible that such a thing should need
consent to be true, but it was only after much deliberation, upon assessing various mental items and points of
view, that I concluded that it was not a dream or a delusion or a misplaced memory or a fancy or any other
such falsity, but a solid, true thing witnessed while in a weakened, highly agitated state. The truth of it would
be confirmed as soon as I felt well enough to investigate.
How I had failed to notice for two and a half days a 450-pound Bengal tiger in a lifeboat twenty-six feet long
was a conundrum I would have to try to crack later, when I had more energy. The feat surely made Richard
Parker the largest stowaway, proportionally speaking, in the history of navigation. From tip of nose to tip of
tail he took up over a third of the length of the ship he was on.
You might think I lost all hope at that point. I did. And as a result I perked up and felt much better. We see
that in sports all the time, don't we? The tennis challenger starts strong but soon loses confidence in his
playing. The champion racks up the games. But in the final set, when the challenger has nothing left to lose, he
becomes relaxed again, insouciant, daring. Suddenly he's playing like the devil and the champion must work
hard to get those last points. So it was with me. To cope with a hyena seemed remotely possible, but I was so
obviously outmatched by Richard Parker that it wasn't even worth worrying about. With a tiger aboard, my
life was over. That being settled, why not do something about my parched throat?
I believe it was this that saved my life that morning, that I was quite literally dying of thirst. Now that the
word had popped into my head I couldn't think of anything else, as if the word itself were salty and the more I
thought of it, the worse the effect. I have heard that the hunger for air exceeds as a compelling sensation the
thirst for water. Only for a few minutes, I say. After a few minutes you die and the discomfort of asphyxiation
goes away. Whereas thirst is a drawn-out affair. Look: Christ on the Cross died of suffocation, but His only
complaint was of thirst. If thirst can be so taxing that even God Incarnate complains about it, imagine the
effect on a regular human. It was enough to make me go raving mad. I have never known a worse physical hell
than this putrid taste and pasty feeling in the mouth, this unbearable pressure at the back of the throat, this
sensation that my blood was turning to a thick syrup that barely flowed. Truly, by comparison, a tiger was
nothing.
And so I pushed aside all thoughts of Richard Parker and fearlessly went exploring for fresh water.
The divining rod in my mind dipped sharply and a spring gushed water when I remembered that I was on a
genuine, regulation lifeboat and that such a lifeboat was surely outfitted with supplies. That seemed like a
perfectly reasonable proposition. What captain would fail in so elementary a way to ensure the safety of his
crew? What ship chandler would not think of making a little extra money under the noble guise of saving
lives? It was settled. There was water aboard. All I had to do was find it.
Which meant I had to move.
I made it to the middle of the boat, to the edge of the tarpaulin. It was a hard crawl. I felt I was climbing the
side of a volcano and I was about to look over the rim into a boiling cauldron of orange lava. I lay flat. I
carefully brought my head over. I did not look over any more than I had to. I did not see Richard Parker. The
hyena was plainly visible, though. It was back behind what was left of the zebra. It was looking at me.